@document.meta
title: main_core
description: Main file of omega core
authors: max
categories: 
created: 2022-06-25
version: 0.0.11
tangle: ./lua/omega/core/init.lua
@end

* Leader key
  @code lua
  vim.g.mapleader = " "

  @end
  Sets the leader key to space.
  It is important to do this early because every mapping defined with `<leader>`
  will use this.
  It's set to space because that allows it to be pressed with the thumbs and
  therefor all the other fingers can stay on their keys and press them fast
  after it.

* Omega global
  @code lua
  require("omega.core.omega_global")
  require("omega.core.config").load()

  @end
  Defines the `omega` variable and sets the config.
  `omega` is a global variable which is used for various things in the config:
  - Config
  - Modules
  -- Plugins
  -- Keybindings
  -- Configs
  - Module configs

  The config is set with the second line.

* Bootstrapping
  @code lua
  local modules = require("omega.core.modules")

  modules.bootstrap_packer()

  local utils = require("omega.utils")
  utils.bootstrap_plugins()

  @end
  Bootstraps some important things.
  Here packer and some important plugins are bootstrapped.
  The plugins are impatient and which-key.

* Core files
  @code lua
  require("omega.core.settings")
  require("omega.core.autocommands")
  require("omega.core.commands")
  require("omega.core.ui")

  @end
  Loads some core files.
  This includes the settings where some neovim options are set, the autocommands
  commands and the ui. In the ui the highlights are defined.

* Modules
  @code lua
  modules.setup()
  modules.load()

  @end
  Sets up some things and load modules.
  This code first sets up modules by loading all the modules (plugins, configs
  and keymappings) into the `omega` global and then sets them up with packer.

* Misc
  @code lua
  require("omega.core.mappings")
  require("omega.utils.types")
  @end
